# CS340
CS340 Client/Server Development 

An important factor in writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is to approach the designing of the program with these in mind. The designing portion of the process can establish the foundation from which the rest of the project is built on. It’s important to review what the project is doing and if a modular approach is best for it. Typically, modularity will dramatically improve a program’s maintainability and make it more adaptable. 

Establishing clearly defined functions that are well-named can have a significant impact on how readable a program is, as well as ensures it’s maintainable. Using thorough comments throughout the code also ensures the code can be easily maintained and understood, contributing to how readable and maintainable it is. A significant advantage of working with the CRUD Python module was that it offered a modular solution to interacting with the database. By creating the Python module, standard CRUD operations could easily be implemented and tested. Additionally, it can easily be reused for a variety of other purposes. If there were another database that needed basic CRUD functionality, the module could be slightly modified to work with that other database or collection. With that said, arguably the most important reason of using the Python module is that it abstracts the database operations and act as a layer between the database and the dashboard from which a user would be interacting with. 

Approaching a problem as a computer science can vary, depending on the person and the project at hand. Generally, it means a systematic way of thinking through a problem or particular project. As a computer scientist, you need to carefully review the requirements of a project and ensure you have a strong understanding of what the end goal is or what features are most important to the client. Regarding this particular dashboard or database, it was the first time I dealt with MongoDB, writing Python modules, and using the Dash framework to build a dashboard. My only experience with databases was through SQL, so it was an interesting experience to learn of NoSQL non-relational databases and how they work. I would like to learn more about MongoDB and some of the different ways you could use it, but I do believe that indexing can be an efficient way to read through a database that is quite large. 

I believe that computer scientists find a way to optimize a process, extend our own capabilities, and find elegant solutions to problems that would otherwise require a lot of manual effort. Just given what they do, it’s easy to see what it matters. As a way to portray the importance in the context of this project, Grazioso Salvare trains dogs to become rescue dogs. This is important work and results in the rescue of a human life. However, to do this, the company needs to find eligible dogs to train for this. There are specific criteria that are required for different types of rescue, meaning the company has to look for a very particular type of dog to even train. This would result in an incredibly time-consuming, laborious, and taxing process without the optimization and solution a computer scientist could provide. By creating a database, writing modules to interact with it, and creating a dashboard to visualize the data and provide methods for the user to interact with the database, the company is able to drastically cut down on the time it takes to research and find eligible pets. There is a simple and efficient way for someone to look through thousands of animals and quickly find matches for training to be rescue dogs.  
